>> Mike North: So
we were talking earlier about
how in CSS we've got this import concept.
So CSS allows us to define multiple style
sheets, and from within a style sheet we
can refer to another external CSS file and
kind of bring it in,
almost like dependency
injection a little bit but
it's a ultra primitive means of doing so.
The down side here is that this is a brand
new request that we are sending out.
So the user has to bear a cost
of us separating our CSS
out into separate files.
Now, we could build, we could create like
an elaborate build system that would
resolve all of these Imports
into a single CSS file,
and in doing so, we would basically
build a piece of what SASS is.
So we want to decouple these concepts, and
this is sort of taking something that
we've learned from the JavaScript world.
That there's great value when we're
dealing with a lot of complexity and
a lot of different components.
There's value in being able to break
things out into individual little files,
where each has a dedicated concern.
And particularly, when we're
looking through our source code and
we wanna see,
what's the history of this file?
It's really nice to be able to see that
we've just been dealing with container and
right nav, and this is sort of the file
dedicated to the high level layout
of this application we're building,
not the components contained therein.
And to have that be sort of
its own entity managing its
own dedicated concern as a file.
As a result,
you can also use import in SASS, but
it does something completely different.
It does something more along
the lines of what we would want.
So let's imagine that we have a folder
structure that looks like this.
So we've got four files in it.
You'll see two of them have underscores
at the beginning of their names.
And two of them don't.
So the things with underscores at
the beginnings of their names,
those are known in the SAS
world as partials.
Partials are designed to be imported
into other SAS files, other scss files.
And they will not become their own
CSS files ended up themselves.
If we would appoint the sass
compiler at this folder,
we would end up with these
two turning into files.
Right, we have app.scss and other.scss but
layout and variables will sort of They
would not come along for the ride.
So this is what we get in terms
of being able to break things up
on our end as builders of style sheets and
not have to pass that
cost of that modularity onto our users and
forcing them to go through
seven different HTTP requests in
order to resolve all of our styles.
And by the way, the result they will
see on the screen is that you know
potentially, they'll have one style
sheet land and some rules be applied and
another stuff sheet will land and
end up with pretty drawing effect.
And the eventual setting of your site,
like the settling of all of your styles
that may happen three seconds
after the page load completes.
So any time you see some weird flashing
going on where things load, and
then shuffle around much later,
this would amplify that effect
in a very negative way.
So in addition to being
able to have partials and
being able to just through file names
control what will turn into an independent
file versus what will remain
kind of an internal concept,
a module that we bring in.
We can point the sass
compiler to other folders.
So an example is if we brought
in bootstrap for and we said,
by the way you should also look in these
places for other SASS files that you're
gonna look into node modules,
bootstraps slash SASS, or whatever it is.
You'd be able to import it just like this,
and
then import other partials and
even other CSS files as well.
You could bring in other
from app if you wanted to.
And then you would like
discard the result of other.
I wouldn't advise doing that but
I am just saying import has,
it's not limited to partials.
You can import any sass file,
any scss file for that matter.
>> Mike North: So
this is importing and it's done v f.
It's called the import Declaration,
anytime we have the at sign,
we call that declaration.
On top of this,
let's layer another concept of variables.
So, here's ab example
of using sas variables.
And we can use them in a couple ways.
Pu here, we have, let's call it
a global variable declaration.
And that means that any SAS file
that has included this, right?
It could be that that's
a SAS file that's imported.
The file inside which that lives.
That would have access to that variable.
And oftentimes, what people do is they
will create a file dedicated towards
global variables and they will be free to
kinda input that wherever its necessary.
Yes?
>> Audience 1: Where do you personally,
normally put your variables file?
>> Mike North: I would put that
as a sibling to my app.css file.
As it's own partial,
that is totally dedicated to variables.
>> Audience 1: Yeah, okay.
>> Mike North: Where it gets
a little more complicated,
is if you're building
on top of a framework.
Because in that case,
there would be certain things that they're
trying to customize, say in Bootstrap.
>> Audience 1: I don't use
>> Mike North: Right.
What, maybe-
>> Audience 1: I see, yeah.
>> Mike North: People do.
>> Audience 1: Yeah.
>> Mike North: And then I would
wanna break out things that are like
bootstrap customizations
from my own variables.
>> Audience 1: Right.
>> Mike North: And the reason there is
that if I need to do
an update in a library and
there may be new variables that are
introduced, I want to really keep track of
what I'm bringing in versus what
I'm defining out my own and
also the ordering sometimes matters
which we're gonna get into in a moment.
So variables always begin
with a dollar sign.
Right, and it looks just like our
style declarations here, right?
It's like a colon between a name and
a value,
variables always begin with a dollar sign.
And then any valid CSS value
can be used as a variable value
including weird stuff like
the value of box shadow,
which is like Pixel values and colors and
radiuses, and you can even have
multiple shadows separated by commas.
You could use that as
the variable value as well.
>> Mike North: This bang default,
right, this is not
the exclamation mark
here does not mean not,
how many negatives sees that.
So, I assume that anyone who's
looked with CSS has seen
exclamation mark important before.
This just fits in the same of
like key words that we can use.
What we've done here is we've set
error_color up as what's called
a default variable.
And that means that this
value will only be used
if error_color has not
been defined elsewhere.
So if we've already defined
error_color earlier up in this file,
this will not override that.
This will not override that.
And oftentimes,
you will see that bootstrap and
material design frameworks and
the like, they will define their variables
in terms of these kinds of things.
So that what you can do is like in
our example on the previous screen
where we can bring in bootstrap.
So above the bootstrap import,
you could set some variable values here.
And then when bootstrap kind of goes to
reading it's sass and it's variables file,
it will encounter things that will
express these default variables.
And by kind of defining something first
before you bring bootstrap in it all,
your custom value will be used in
assembling bootstrap together,
and this could be like Paddings or
colors or
fonts, anything that is
parametrize in those frameworks.
So that's the purpose of
using these default values.
>> Mike North: In here, we have what's
called a local variable declaration.
And if you are a JavaScript developer,
this may be useful to think of this
as something defined inside a closure
in that if we had other things
nested inside alert error,
they would also have access to text color.
This is, in my opinion,
an underutilized feature of SAS
because what it lets us do is
have easy to manage names.
We don't have to name space
everything globally and
make it alert_error_default_text_color.
We can just use short names that are
meaningful because they're only pertinent
in the context of the declaration
block inside which they're defined.
And so you don't have to
worry about like all of that
stuff we go through to avoid
collisions with other variables.
So I really love using this kind of thing.
And a sneak preview here,
there's something else I'm using here.
I'm using a SASS function at the bottom
to darken a text color by 40%.
So SASS comes with a bunch on functions
that let us manipulate strings and
adjust colors to other colors and
work with numbers and so on.
We'll get into that later, but
just want to let you know what's ahead.
So in terms of variables, using simple
arithmetic, it is totally fine.
So for example,
if you have a variable that is like
border width and then you want
a double thickness border somewhere.
Then you can express it as
border dash width colon
that variable *2 like for times two.
You can do simple arithmetic just fine.
And sass handles a lot of
typical unit conversion,
so if you need to convert from like
not possible to convert
like rams to pixels,
you can't really do that just because you
have to take font metrics into account.
But degrees to radians,
you could do that pretty easily.
You could convert percent to
a decimal value, like 50% or .5.
It's all regarded as the same thing.
These are all what Sass
would treat as numbers.
It almost like boils
everything bound to some
base level where it
normalizes all numbers.
And so you can inter-operate
between them degrees like.
And again, any CSS value is
fine according a variable.
So we have several different types
of variables that we can use.
Four that we're gonna go over now, and
two I will leave until later because
they're almost like data structures.
They're not just primitive types.
So the first is different types of
numbers, and so we've got points, percent,
pixels, just numbers, right?
We've got colors, which we can
express in a couple of different ways.
We can use hex values, RGB components,
RGBA, or the reserved color names,
the ridiculously long and sometimes
esoteric list of built-in CSS colors.
>> Mike North: Strings are strings
nothing too interesting there.
Booleans are booleans.
So the two we're gonna put off until
later are the concept of lists and maps.
And I will give you an example
of what a list and map would be.
A list would be like port radius.
We have several space delimited values
that all together they sort of,
that can be a property value, right?
Border radius has one property value and
its value is a list.
Maps, we don't often
see in regular CSS but
if you have ever used the Sass
feature where you can say heading: and
open a new declaration block and
say top:5px
bottom:2px that key value
relationship there is a map.
You have an ordered collection and
a key value pair data structure.
Almost like an array and
an object in JavaScript.
>> Mike North: So one thing you'll
need to know for the next exercise or
it will be useful to know is a little
bit about Sass comments work.
So block style comments end up
being preserved in the output CSS
in line comments always get rid of.
The reason here is that in line comments
are not part of the strict CSS spec.
So the effect cannot be preserve.
So it's not so much that it was designed
this way, but if you haven't desire to
make in line comments, know that there's
just no way, other than like turning it
into a block for example for it to be
passed on to what the browser consumes.
So one of the things I
love using comments for,
especially as I build my CSS,
is something called string interpolation.
This is where we can take like a variable,
or the output of a SASS function.
And we can render it,
we can place it into our CSS
somewhere into our using
this pound sign and braces.
So essentially, what we're saying
is we're taking the color green.
We're passing it into one of these
built in color functions called hue.
Which hue was the rotation around the
color wheel that a particular color is so
it has a value from zero through 360 for
degree value.
So we are basically saying Hue is and
then we want the angle for
green and what we get in
the outputs CSS is 120 degrees.
If you're curious about like what is
this thing returning, you can always
use a comment and just interpolate
the value right in the comment.
You can interpolate values
in selector names or
in property values or there are,
I'm actually not aware of any limitations
of where you can interpolate values.
In some places,
it would result in invalid CSS, and
so that will throw things for a loop and
you won't get anything out, but
I would just say if it makes sense
to you somewhere it probably does.